Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn
how to test for errors
that may happen in your functions.
So, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna take our divide function,
we're gonna say if divisor is zero,
we're gonna raise a ValueError
and we're gonna say The divisor cannot be zero.
Now what this means is if we pass in a divisor of zero,
we need to have a test
to see that ValueError is raised,
so let's implement that test.
This is also gonna be helpful for you to learn
how to check for errors in your tests
in case you wanna use that elsewhere.
So, I've created a test called test_divide_error_on_zero
and the syntax for checking an error,
the easier syntax is to say with self.assertRaises
and then type ValueError
or the type of error that this is going to raise
and in here you can write any code
that should raise an error.
In my case I'm gonna do divide 25 by zero.
Now if the code in here does not raise an error,
so if this test runs through this entire code
which at the moment is only one line
and there's no error raised,
the test will fail, if there is an error raised,
the test will pass.
So, let's run this.
And you can see that we have four tests ran
and the status is okay.
This is how I recommend checking for an error
by using this context manager.
However, you can also do self.assertRaises
and in here, you can put in the exception type
and a callable.
That means that you could do ValueError
and then pass in here the callable.
Notice that if we do 25 and zero here,
this is not a callable that we're passing.
Here we're passing the result of calling the function
which is not the same thing,
so you would have to type in a lambda
of divide 25 by zero
or indeed, any other function
but not call the function itself.
So, if you do this,
this is the same thing,
it works in exactly the same way
but I believe this is slightly worse
in most circumstances.
If you are testing a function
that doesn't take any arguments,
then you could do something like this
and then this syntax here may be better
or at least shorter.
But because our divide function is taking arguments,
then I find this a little bit more confusing,
so I would go with the context manager instead
by doing something like this.
That's it for this video,
this is how you check for errors being raised in your code.
And I'll see you in the next one.